Moving on to how to isolate errors faster,
I think the core idea here is simplicity.
How do you keep your app
as simple as possible?
And when I think about the applications
that I've worked with that I think
of as simple, because simple is such a
hard thing to actually define objectively.
I tend to think about this paradox
of duplication of code and
concepts, versus abstraction.
A lot of times I create code that
I would regard as not simple,
because I'm trying to build
an abstraction on top of something.
jQuery, for example,
built all kinds of abstractions on top
of dealing with network transmissions.
And dealing with finding elements that
he thought users didn't have to handle.
He wanted to create a abstraction with
an easier to understand interface,
but the underlying code inside
of it is anything but simple.
There's tons of archaic things
that need to deal with to
solve browsers, and
lots of duplication of concepts that
had to be repeated to solve
individual browser quirks.
Now, in your code, you're faced
with these decisions all the time.
When I worked as a consultant,
I think I would have this fight with
somebody at least once a month.
Where you would do something,
you would solve problem x, and
you'd be really happy with
your solution to problem x.
And then you would see problem x again,
in another part of the codebase.
And somebody on your team would be, let's
generalize that, we just needed problem
x factory somewhere in the code and we
can solve anytime problem x occurs ever.
But that brings in,
its building an abstraction
To reduce the duplication of code, but it
is damaging the simplicity of your code.
It is harder to understand it.
A rule that has always served me really,
really well,
it was first introduced by Martin Fowler
in the book Refactoring, is the rule of 3.
And so whether you're dealing with
a problem, a concept in your code,
something you're trying to do, the first
time you run into a problem, solve it.
The second time you run into the problem,
and
you're tempted to build an abstraction,
don't.
Copy and paste your solution and
implement it again.
The third time you run into the problem,
now, you can think about an abstraction.
By creating an abstraction for
anytime something has happened twice,
you're creating a lot of overhead in your
code, a lot of unnecessary abstractions,
and you're damaging your simplicity.
And so this is something that I have
always followed in the applications that
I've built.
Probably a more practical
tactical solution,
is designing your application for
test which is a hardware concept.
Has anybody done any hardware work?
Designing circuit boards and
that sort of stuff?
When you're designing a circuit board,
you're gonna get it wrong a lot.
It's gonna break in all kinds of weird
ways with different resistors will
burn out or whatever.
And so you're gonna need ways
on how to test what part broke,
you're gonna need access points to know,
is my data getting through this thing?
Is power going through this correctly?
I like taking this concept and
using it for software, and
I think a good parody is a debug mode.
We do all kinds of things about
smashing our code together and
removing all kinds of access points for
the sake of the architecture and security,
and performance of the code.
But those things all kind of hurt
debug-ability at the same time.
And so, for many apps that I build,
I usually like doing
it as this where you can hang like
a particular query string off of the URL.
The server will use that to
serve the debug version of code.
Maybe it will serve unmodified assets,
maybe it'll serve an additional thing
that is a logger that prints out
everything that is happening.
It depends on what your context is.
But think about what are the kind
of things that you wish you knew,
when you're debugging the kind
of problems that your app has?
And can you produce a test a debug mode
that tells you those sort of things,
in a way to optionally turn
them on in your application?
I tend to think this is one of the things
that is well worth its investment, for
apps that are going to
live more than a year.
There's lots of tools out there
to help you isolate bugs.
We spent a lot of time today in Chrome,
Chrome in my opinion has the best
JavaScript debugger today.
But, you won't have the luxury of being
able to spend all your time in Chrome.
There will be bugs that you'll run
into that will be Firefox specific, or
Edge specific, or Safari specific,
or Opera specific or whatever.
And you're going to need to use the debug
tools in those browsers as well.
Most of them have the same capabilities
presented in slightly different ways,
but the more you use them the more
adapt you'll get at them.
It is tideous to have all of those
browsers on your machine and
in an operable form all at once.
Especially if you have a Mac and
you support users that use old
version of Internet Explorer.
For that, I have a service that I
highly recommend called Sauce Labs.
Sauce Labs is a remote
Selenium testing stack, so
if you wanna do real browser testing
they provide those services.
But you can also spin up
machines with arbitrary operating
system in browser combinations,
really fast.
I no longer have virtual machines for
different Internet Explorer
images on my computer.
Because when I have an Internet Explorer
bug, I go out to my Sauce Labs account and
I spin one up.
Super easy, I could probably
do one right now if we want.
Infact, we will, just because a bunch
of people seem kind of perked up and
interested.
So Sauce Labs, the primary
thing that I use Sauce Labs for
is automated testing for
the track JS JavaScript library.
But as part of that you
also get automation, so
I can create a new automation
session that says I want to go to,
HTTP on what is wwwfrontendmasters.com.
I wanna go to, I guess it's just HTTP,
frontendmasters.com.
And I wanna do it on, [CROSSTALK]
>> It's HTTPS.
>> Is it?
>> There's no HTTP here.
>> Okay, good, good for you.
And I wanna do Internet Explorer
9 with Windows 7, and Start.
And this should take just a few minutes,
not even a minute.
I like that it has some
fun messages in there for
number three it's hacking the Gibson.
>> BrowserStack is much faster.
>> BrowserStack UI is a lot nicer.
I found their virtual machines
to be a lot less reliable,
which probably doesn't matter for
this thing that we're doing right here.
It doesn't really matter for
these manual testing instances
that we're doing right here.
But if you're trying to spin up automated,
reliable virtual machines for
a test suite, it is not so good.
We abandoned BrowserStack
maybe two years ago.
So maybe it's gotten better since then,
but
my preferred at the moment to Sauce Labs.
So here we go, it is about two minutes or
so, I was able to spin up an environment.
Here I have a fully interactive
Internet Explorer 9,
with all its horrendous
debugging capabilities.
I can pop open the DevTools.
>> Are we were doing this when we
launch our big sale, all right?
Because I could not reproduce the issue,
but
Brent was having an issue,
so we went to BrowserStack.
>> Yep.
>> And the issue was there,
it was indeed there to fix it.
>> So Sauce Labs is really helpful for
getting access to browsers that
you might not have on hand.
We played a little bit with Charles Proxy,
which is very useful for either debugging
live in production, when you want to make
changes without really making changes.
Or if you just want to intercept
a complex system of requests, and
make your own changes to it.
And then finally,
Track JS shows you a bunch of information
about how did a bug come to occur.
And so it can help point you at
which browsers, how many users,
what pages is something happening on?
Yeah.